<appendix id="installation">
	<title>Installation</title>

	<sect1 id="obtaining">
		<title>How to obtain &partman;</title>

		<para>
			The main website for &partman; is <ulink url="http://www.partitionmanager.org">www.partitionmanager.org</ulink>. For
			the most current version, this is the place to go.
		</para>
	</sect1>

	<sect1 id="requirements">
		<title>Requirements</title>

		<para>
			In order to successfully use &partman;, you need &kde; 4.2 or later and &Qt; 4.4.0 or later. You do however not need to be logged into &kde; to use it: &partman; will run just fine under any other desktop environment as long as you have the basic &kde; libraries installed.
		</para>

		<para>
			For a large part of its basic functionality &partman; relies on <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/software/parted/index.shtml">libparted</ulink>. To generate UUIDs for copied file systems, it uses libuuid, which is part of <ulink url="http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net">e2fsprogs</ulink>. It also uses the <ulink url="http://userweb.kernel.org/~kzak/util-linux-ng/">libblkid library from the util-linux-ng project</ulink> to obtain information about partitions and file systems. All of these are required to build or run &partman;.
		</para>

		<para>
			&partman; makes extensive use of external tools to support a wide range of file systems. A specific tool is only required if you need the support for an operation it provides for a certain file system. For example, if you have no need to resize NTFS file systems you do not require to have <quote>ntfsresize</quote> installed. None of these tools are required to build &partman; from sources.
		</para>

		<para>
			Here is a list of all external tools &partman; can make use of:
		</para>

		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem>
				<para>
					&debugfsreiser4;: Reads usage information and file system labels for reiser4 file systems. Part of the reiser4progs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/fs/reiser4/reiser4progs/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&debugreiserfs;: Reads usage information and file system labels for reiserfs file systems. Part of the reiserfsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/fs/reiserfs/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&dumpe2fs;: Reads usage information for ext2/ext3/ext4 file systems. Part of the e2fsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&e2label;: Reads and writes file system labels for ext2/ext3/ext4 file systems. Part of the e2fsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&fsckmsdos;: Reads usage information and checks FAT16 and FAT32 file systems. Part of the dosfstools utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.daniel-baumann.ch/software/dosfstools/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&hfsck;: Reads file system labels and checks HFS file systems. Part of the hfsutils utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.mars.org/home/rob/proj/hfs/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&hpfsck;: Checks HFS+ file systems. Part of the hfsplusutils utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.penguinppc.org/historical/hfsplus/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&jfsdebugfs;: Reads usage information for JFS file systems. Part of the jfsutils utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://jfs.sourceforge.net/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&jfstune;: Reads and writes file system labels for JFS file systems. Part of the jfsutils utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://jfs.sourceforge.net/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&ntfslabel;:  Reads and writes file system labels for NTFS file systems. Part of the ntfsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.linux-ntfs.org/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&ntfsresize;: Reads usage information, checks and resizes NTFS file systems. Part of the ntfsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.linux-ntfs.org/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&swapoff;: Deactivates swap file systems. Part of the util-linux-ng utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="ftp://ftp.us.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux-ng/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&swapon;: Activates swap file systems. Part of the util-linux-ng utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="ftp://ftp.us.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux-ng/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&volid;: Reads file system labels for linuxswap file systems. Part of udev that can be downloaded from <ulink url="http://www.us.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/kernel/hotplug/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					&xfsdb;: Reads usage information and reads and writes file system labels for XFS file systems. Part of the xfsprogs utility suite that can be downloaded from <ulink url="ftp://oss.sgi.com/projects/xfs/cmd_tars/"/>.
				</para>
			</listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
	</sect1>

	<sect1 id="compilation">
		<title>Compilation and Installation</title>
		&install.compile.documentation;
	</sect1>

	<sect1 id="furtherreading">
		<title>Further Reading</title>

		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem>
				<para>
					<ulink url="http://www.linfo.org/">The Linux Information Project</ulink> has a ton of information on many aspects of Linux. Their article on <ulink url="http://www.linfo.org/partition.html">partitions</ulink> is very informative. But also see their entries on <ulink url="http://www.linfo.org/partition_table.html">partition tables</ulink>, <ulink url="http://www.linfo.org/hdd.html">hard disk devices</ulink> and <ulink url="http://www.linfo.org/filesystem.html">file systems</ulink>.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					The <ulink url="http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Partition/index.html">Linux Partition HOWTO</ulink> is a basic overview of handling and partitioning disk devices on Linux and the native Linux file systems. It also covers swap partitions.
				</para>
			</listitem>

			<listitem>
				<para>
					<ulink url="http://www.wikipedia.org">Wikipedia</ulink> has an entry on <ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning">disk partitioning</ulink>.
				</para>
			</listitem>
			
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</sect1>
	
</appendix>
